README.md, before:

# 🎓 NCERT AI Solver: The Intelligence-Native Mastery Platform

An advanced, premium-styled academic assistant powered by **Ollama (Qwen 2.5/3)** and a **Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)** pipeline. This project transforms passive reading into an interactive, AI-driven learning experience powered by a local intelligence layer.

![NCERT AI Banner](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Mastery--Phase-accent)
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-5.2-blue)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-18-blue)
![Ollama](https://img.shields.io/badge/LLM-Qwen--2.5/3-purple)
![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-0.100+-green)
![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firebase-Auth-orange)

---

## 🌟 The Evolution: From "Solver" to "Coach"

The **NCERT AI Solver** has evolved. While it started as a tool to answer textbook questions, it is now an **Academic Coach**. It doesn't just clear doubts; it analyzes your learning patterns to set daily missions, tracks your commitment, and visualizes your path to mastery.

---

## 💡 The "Intelligence Layer" Architecture

Our architecture is now **LLM-Native**, using a sophisticated agentic loop to personalize every interaction. It supports **high-fidelity multilingual intelligence** for regional Indian languages (Hindi, Tamil, etc.).

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[NCERT Digital Library] -->|RAG Retrieval| B(AI Solver)
    C[User Engagement Data] -->|Real-time Feed| D{AI Intelligence Layer}
    D -->|Ollama / Qwen| E[Daily AI Missions]
    D -->|Weighted Logic| F[Readiness Score]
    E -->|Interactive Task| G[Student Dashboard]
    F -->|Visual Progress| G
    B -->|Citations| G
    G -->|Activity Log| H[Firebase Firestore]
    H -->|Feedback Loop| D
```

---

## ✨ Premium Features

### 🎯 **The Daily AI Mission**
Using **Ollama (Qwen)**, the app analyzes your subject mastery scores every morning. If your Science score is low, the AI creates a dedicated mission: *"Mission: Master Thermodynamics"* with real XP rewards.

### 🧠 **Intelligent Readiness Score**
A transparent, multi-dimensional metric that calculates your exam readiness based on:
- **Foundational Mastery** (Base 60%)
- **Lesson Completion** (+5% per module)
- **Active Engagement** (+1% per doubt solved)
- **Diagnostic Validation** (+2% per quiz score)

### ✅ **Diagnostic Hub (Assess)**
Move beyond just reading. Generate instant:
- **AI Flashcards**: For rapid-fire revision of complex terms.
- **Interactive Quizzes**: Multiple-choice assessments generated directly from textbook context with instant scoring.

### 🏠 **Personalized Home Hub**
- **Study Personas**: Identify as an *Architect*, *Sprinter*, or *Analyst* with custom UI branding.
- **Radial Commitment Tracker**: Visualize your daily study minutes against your set goals.
- **Subject Mastery Grid**: High-fidelity cards with glowing progress bars and descriptive icons for every subject.

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React 18 (Vite), Framer Motion (High-Fidelity Animations), Tailwind CSS v4.
- **Backend**: FastAPI (Python), LangChain (Agentic Orchestration).
- **Primary Intelligence**: Ollama (Local LLM: Qwen 2.5 / Qwen 3).
- **Fallback Intelligence**: Google Gemini 1.5 Pro.
- **Storage/Auth**: Firebase Firestore & Authentication.
- **Vector Engine**: Semantic Indexing for NCERT textbooks.

---

## 🚀 Setup & Launch

### 1. Requirements
- **Ollama** installed and running (`ollama serve`).
- **Python 3.10+** and **Node.js 18+**.

### 2. Backend Orchestration
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/ncert-solver.git
cd ncert-solver
pip install -r requirements.txt
cp .env.example .env 
# Set OLLAMA_MODEL=qwen2.5 (or preferred model)
python src/api/main.py
```

### 3. Frontend Experience
```bash
cd src/ui
npm install
npm run dev
```

---

## 📜 Project Vision
To bridge the "Doubt Gap" in Indian education by providing every student—regardless of location—with an elite, AI-driven study partner that understands the NCERT curriculum as perfectly as a teacher, but with the 24/7 availability of an app.

*Educational Project. All NCERT contents are properties of NCERT India.*

Commit message:

feat: Add chat persistence, mind map saving, and robust assessment features

README.md, after:

# 🎓 NCERT AI Solver: The Intelligence-Native Mastery Platform

An advanced, premium-styled academic assistant powered by **Ollama (Qwen 2.5/3)** and a **Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)** pipeline. This project transforms passive reading into an interactive, AI-driven learning experience powered by a local intelligence layer.

![NCERT AI Banner](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Mastery--Phase-accent)
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-5.2-blue)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-18-blue)
![Ollama](https://img.shields.io/badge/LLM-Qwen--2.5/3-purple)
![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-0.100+-green)
![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firebase-Auth-orange)

---

## 🌟 The Evolution: From "Solver" to "Coach"

The **NCERT AI Solver** has evolved. While it started as a tool to answer textbook questions, it is now an **Academic Coach**. It doesn't just clear doubts; it analyzes your learning patterns to set daily missions, tracks your commitment, creates visual mind maps, and visualizes your path to mastery.

---

## 💡 The "Intelligence Layer" Architecture

Our architecture is now **LLM-Native**, using a sophisticated agentic loop to personalize every interaction. It supports **high-fidelity multilingual intelligence** for regional Indian languages (Hindi, Tamil, etc.) and preserves context across sessions.

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[NCERT Digital Library] -->|RAG Retrieval| B(AI Solver)
    C[User Engagement Data] -->|Real-time Feed| D{AI Intelligence Layer}
    D -->|Ollama / Qwen| E[Daily AI Missions]
    D -->|Visual Gen| I[Mind Maps & Diagrams]
    D -->|Weighted Logic| F[Readiness Score]
    E -->|Interactive Task| G[Student Dashboard]
    F -->|Visual Progress| G
    B -->|Citations| G
    I -->|Mermaid Script| G
    G -->|Activity Log & Chats| H[Firebase Firestore]
    H -->|Feedback Loop| D
```

---

## ✨ Premium Features

### 🧠 **Persistent "Second Brain"**
- **Contextual Chat History**: Your conversations are saved automatically, segregated by **Subject** (e.g., "Economics") or **Specific Chapter**. Pick up exactly where you left off.
- **Smart Context Clearing**: Easily wipe history for a specific topic when you want a fresh start, without losing your global progress.

### 🌐 **Mastery Mind Maps**
- **Visual Learning**: instantly transform complex chapter text into interactive, hierarchical Mind Maps.
- **Interactive Controls**: Zoom, pan, and explore large concept trees.
- **Auto-Save Gallery**: Every generated map is saved to your profile, building a personal library of visual revision notes.

### 🎯 **The Daily AI Mission**
Using **Ollama (Qwen)**, the app analyzes your subject mastery scores every morning. If your Science score is low, the AI creates a dedicated mission: *"Mission: Master Thermodynamics"* with real XP rewards. Now cached locally to provide a consistent daily goal.

### 🧐 **Visual Problem Solving**
- **Image-to-Solution**: Upload a photo of a textbook problem or diagram. The Vision AI extracts the text/geometry and uses RAG to find the exact concept and solution in your library.

### ✅ **Diagnostic Hub (Assess)**
Move beyond just reading. Generate instant:
- **AI Flashcards**: For rapid-fire revision of complex terms.
- **Interactive Quizzes**: Multiple-choice assessments generated directly from textbook context with instant scoring.
- **Progress Tracking**: Every quiz score is saved, contributing to your overall "Readiness Score."

### 🏠 **Personalized Home Hub**
- **Splintered Disciplines**: Social Sciences are now intelligently categorized into **Geography**, **History**, **Economics**, and **Politics** for focused study.
- **Study Personas**: Identify as an *Architect*, *Sprinter*, or *Analyst* with custom UI branding.
- **Radial Commitment Tracker**: Visualize your daily study minutes against your set goals.

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React 18 (Vite), Framer Motion (High-Fidelity Animations), Tailwind CSS v4, Mermaid.s.
- **Backend**: FastAPI (Python), LangChain (Agentic Orchestration).
- **Primary Intelligence**: Ollama (Local LLM: Qwen 2.5 / Qwen 1.7b / Qwen 3).
- **Fallback Intelligence**: Google Gemini 1.5 Pro.
- **Storage/Auth**: Firebase Firestore & Authentication.
- **Vector Engine**: Semantic Indexing for NCERT textbooks.

---

## 🚀 Setup & Launch

### 1. Requirements
- **Ollama** installed and running (`ollama serve`).
- **Python 3.10+** and **Node.js 18+**.
- **Firebase Project**: Configured in `.env` (Frontend) and Service Account (Backend if needed).

### 2. Backend Orchestration
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/ncert-solver.git
cd ncert-solver
pip install -r requirements.txt
cp .env.example .env 
# Set OLLAMA_MODEL=qwen2.5 (or preferred model)
python src/api/main.py
```

### 3. Frontend Experience
```bash
cd src/ui
npm install
npm run dev
```

---

## 📜 Project Vision
To bridge the "Doubt Gap" in Indian education by providing every student—regardless of location—with an elite, AI-driven study partner that understands the NCERT curriculum as perfectly as a teacher, but with the 24/7 availability of an app.

*Educational Project. All NCERT contents are properties of NCERT India.*
